---

title: Omega
data-type: mixin
category: mixins
source-url: http://git.io/Mxf_GQ
permalink: /redirect

---

The `omega()` mixin can be called on any element to remove its gutter, regradless of its position in the grid hierarchy or display property. It explicitly designates an element as the last of its row. It can target a specific element, or every `nth-child` occurance. It works with both `block` and `table` layouts and adapts to the active layout direction.

### Syntax

{% highlight scss %}
@include omega($target $display);
{% endhighlight %}

#### Optional Arguments

- `$target` **string** ** : The pseudo selector to target.
  - *Values >* any valid [nth-child][2]  argument | `auto` to target the `:last-child` pseudo selector.
  - *Default >* *null*

- `$display` **string** : The display property of the calling element. Useful when working with table layouts.
  - *Values >* `block | table`
  - *Default >* `block`

When passed an `nth-child` argument of type `*n` with block display, the omega mixin automatically adds a clear to the `*n+1` th element.

#### Deprecation Warning
The omega mixin will no longer take a `$direction` argument. To change the layout direction, use `row($direction)` or set `$default-layout-direction` instead.

### Example

{% highlight scss %}
.element {
  @include omega;
}
.nth-element {
  @include omega(4n);
}
.table-cell {
  @include omega(3n table);
}

// CSS
.element {
  margin-right: 0;
}
.nth-element:nth-child(4n) {
  margin-right: 0;
}
.nth-element:nth-child(4n+1) {
  clear: left;
}
.table-cell:nth-child(3n) {
  padding-left: 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}
